---
prev: ./session
next: ./error-handling
---
# Validation

## Introduction

Platine provides several different approaches to validate your application's incoming data. It is most common to extend the class `Platine\Framework\Form\Validator\AbstractValidator` to validate all incoming HTTP requests or data. However, we will discuss other approaches to validation as well.

Platine includes a wide variety of convenient validation rules that you may apply to data, even providing the ability to validate if values are unique in a given database table. We'll cover each of these validation rules in detail so that you are familiar with all of Platine's validation features.

## Validation Quickstart

To learn about Platine's powerful validation features, let's look at a complete example of validating a form and displaying the error messages back to the user. By reading this high-level overview, you'll be able to gain a good general understanding of how to validate incoming request data using Platine.

### Defining The Parameter

For more complex validation scenarios, you may wish to create a "form request". Form requests are custom request classes that encapsulate their own validation and authorization logic. To create a form request class, you may use the `make:request` Platine CLI command:

    php platine make:request StorePostRequest

The generated form request class will be placed in the `app/Http/Requests` directory. If this directory does not exist, it will be created when you run the `make:request` command. Each form request generated by Platine has two methods: `authorize` and `rules`.

As you might have guessed, the `authorize` method is responsible for determining if the currently authenticated user can perform the action represented by the request, while the `rules` method returns the validation rules that should apply to the request's data:
### Preparing Input For Validation

### Writing The Validation Logic

### Creating The Action (Controller)

### Displaying The Validation Errors

### Customizing The Error Messages
Platine's built-in validation rules each has an error message that is located in your application's `storage/resource/lang/{en_US}/LC_MESSAGES/validators.po` file. Within this file, you will find a translation entry for each validation rule. You are free to change or modify these messages based on the needs of your application.

In addition, you may copy this file to another translation language directory to translate the messages for your application's language. To learn more about Platine localization, check out the complete [localization documentation](../advanced/translation).

### Repopulating Forms

### Working With Validated Input


## Available Validation Rules
To learn more about Platine Validator, check out the complete [Platine Validator](../packages/validator/) documentation.
