---
prev: ./configuration
next: ./starter-project
---
# Architecture

## Introduction

The default Platine application structure is intended to provide a great starting point for both large and small applications. But you are free to organize your application however you like. Platine imposes almost no restrictions on where any given class is located - as long as Composer can autoload the class.

## The Root Directory

#### The App Directory

The `app` directory contains the core code of your application. We'll explore this directory in more detail soon; however, almost all of the classes in your application will be in this directory.

#### The Config Directory

The `config` directory, as the name implies, contains all of your application's configuration files. It's a great idea to read through all of these files and familiarize yourself with all of the options available to you.

#### The Public Directory

The `public` directory contains the `index.php` file, which is the entry point for all requests entering your application and configures autoloading. This directory also houses your assets such as images, JavaScript, and CSS.

#### The Storage Directory

The `storage` directory contains your logs, views templates, file based sessions, file caches, and other files generated by the framework. This directory is segregated into `migrations`, `resource`, and `tmp` directories. The `migrations` directory is  used to store any files generated migrations and seeders files. The `resource` directory is used to store view templates and translation files. Finally, the `tmp` directory contains your application's log, session, cache files.

#### The Tests Directory

The `tests` directory contains your automated tests. Example [PHPUnit](https://phpunit.de/) unit tests and feature tests are provided out of the box. Each test class should be suffixed with the word `Test`. You may run your tests using the `phpunit` or `php vendor/bin/phpunit` commands.

#### The Vendor Directory

The `vendor` directory contains your [Composer](https://getcomposer.org) application dependencies.

## The App Directory

The majority of your application is housed in the `app` directory. By default, this directory is namespaced under `Platine\App` and is autoloaded by Composer using the [PSR-4 autoloading standard](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-4/).

The `app` directory contains a variety of additional directories such as `Console`, `Http`, `Model` and `Provider`. Think of the `Console` and `Http` directories as providing an API into the core of your application. The HTTP protocol and CLI are both mechanisms to interact with your application, but do not actually contain application logic. In other words, they are two ways of issuing commands to your application. The `Console` directory contains all of your Platine commands, while the `Http` directory contains your Actions (controllers), middleware.

#### The Console Directory

The `Console` directory contains all of the custom Platine commands for your application. 

#### The Exception Directory

The `Exception` directory contains your application's exception and is also a good place to place any exceptions thrown by your application. In this directory you already have the application base exception class `Platine\App\Exception\ApplicationException`, it's recommended that all the application extend this base class.

#### The Http Directory

The `Http` directory contains your actions (controllers) and middleware. Almost all of the logic to handle requests entering your application will be placed in the `Action` directory.

#### The Model Directory

The `Model` directory contains all of your [Entities and Repositories classes](../orm/getting-started.md). The ORM included with Platine provides a beautiful, simple Data mapper implementation for working with your database. Each database table has a corresponding "Entity" and "Repository" which is used to interact with that table. Models allow you to query for data in your tables, as well as insert new records into the table.

#### The Provider Directory

The `Provider` directory contains all of the [service providers](../general/providers.md) for your application. Service providers bootstrap your application by binding services in the container, registering events, routes, commands or performing any other tasks to prepare your application for incoming requests.

In a fresh Platine application, this directory will already contain several providers. You are free to add your own providers to this directory as needed.
